README.md, before:

### image-service   [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/image-service.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/image-service)

This Grails application provides the webservices and backend for the storage of all images in the Atlas.
It includes:

* Support for large images
* Extensible key/value pair storage for image metadata
* Support for subimaging and maintaining the relationships between parent and child images
* Exif extraction
* Tile view for large images compatible with GIS Javascript clients such as LeafletJS, OpenLayers and Google Maps
* Webservices for image upload
* Generate of derivative images for thumbnail presentation
* Tagging support
* Administrator console for image management
* Swagger API
* Integration with google analytics to monitor image usage by data resource


There are other related repositories to this one:
* [images-client-plugin](https://github.com/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/images-client-plugin) - a grails plugin to provide a Javascript based viewer to be used in other applications requiring a image viewer. This viewer is based on LeafletJS.
* [image-tiling-agent](https://github.com/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/image-tiling-agent) - a utility to run tiling jobs for the image-service. This is intended to used on multiple machine as tiling is CPU intensive and best parallelised.
* [image-loader](https://github.com/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/image-loader) - utility for bulk loading images into the image-service.

## Architecture

* Grails 3 web application ran in the tomcat 7 or as standalone executable jar
* Open JDK 8
* Postgres database (9.6 or above)
* Elastic search 7

## Installation

There are ansible scripts for this applications (and other ALA tools) in the [ala-install](https://github.com/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/ala-install) project. The ansible playbook for the image-service is [here](https://github.com/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/ala-install/blob/master/ansible/image-service.yml)

You can also run this application locally by following the instructions on its [wiki page](https://github.com/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/image-service/wiki)

## Running it locally

There is a docker-compose YML file that can be used to run elastic search locally for local development purposes.
To use run:

```$xslt
docker-compose -f elastic.yml up -d
```

And to shutdown


```$xslt
docker-compose -f elastic.yml kill
```

Commit message:

1.0.1 bug fix for 404s and postgres docker to aid local development

README.md, after:

### image-service   [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/image-service.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/image-service)

This Grails application provides the webservices and backend for the storage of all images in the Atlas.
It includes:

* Support for large images
* Extensible key/value pair storage for image metadata
* Support for subimaging and maintaining the relationships between parent and child images
* Exif extraction
* Tile view for large images compatible with GIS Javascript clients such as LeafletJS, OpenLayers and Google Maps
* Webservices for image upload
* Generate of derivative images for thumbnail presentation
* Tagging support
* Administrator console for image management
* Swagger API
* Integration with google analytics to monitor image usage by data resource


There are other related repositories to this one:
* [images-client-plugin](https://github.com/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/images-client-plugin) - a grails plugin to provide a Javascript based viewer to be used in other applications requiring a image viewer. This viewer is based on LeafletJS.
* [image-tiling-agent](https://github.com/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/image-tiling-agent) - a utility to run tiling jobs for the image-service. This is intended to used on multiple machine as tiling is CPU intensive and best parallelised.
* [image-loader](https://github.com/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/image-loader) - utility for bulk loading images into the image-service.

## Architecture

* Grails 3 web application ran in the tomcat 7 or as standalone executable jar
* Open JDK 8
* Postgres database (9.6 or above)
* Elastic search 7

## Installation

There are ansible scripts for this applications (and other ALA tools) in the [ala-install](https://github.com/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/ala-install) project. The ansible playbook for the image-service is [here](https://github.com/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/ala-install/blob/master/ansible/image-service.yml)

You can also run this application locally by following the instructions on its [wiki page](https://github.com/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/image-service/wiki)

## Running it locally

### Postgres
There is a docker-compose YML file that can be used to run postgres locally for local development purposes.
To use run:
```$xslt
docker-compose -f elastic.yml up -d
```
And to shutdown
```$xslt
docker-compose -f elastic.yml kill
```


### Elastic search
There is a docker-compose YML file that can be used to run elastic search locally for local development purposes.
To use run:
```$xslt
docker-compose -f elastic.yml up -d
```
And to shutdown
```$xslt
docker-compose -f elastic.yml kill
```
